---
title: "AZ-104 Notes"
date: 2022-06-28T21:01:38
draft: false
author: "Golgothus"
description: "Microsoft AZ-104 Learning Path"
summary: "Azure 104 - Azure Administration learning path from https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/exams/az-104"
tags: ["Azure", "AZCLI"]
featuredImage: "/images/city.jpg"
categories: ["Azure"]
---

## Azure VNET
### Creating VNET's
When creating VNET's, you need:
- Subscription ID
- Resource Group
- Virtual Newtork name
- Prefix Address

When creating Virtual Subnets, you need:
- Subscription ID
- Resource Group
- Virtual Network name
- Subnet name
- Prefix Addresses

If creating your subnet in the same sequence as your vnet:
- subscription id
- resource group
- name (of your vnet)
- address-prefix (for your vnet)
- subnet-name
- subnet-prefix
- location of your vnet

```azure
az network vnet create \
    --resource-group learn-87aef787-e166-4b23-8514-58f8467dd7d6 \
    --name ResearchVNet \
    --address-prefix 10.3.0.0/16 \
    --subnet-name Data \
    --subnet-prefix 10.3.1.0/24 \
    --location westeurope
```

### VNet Peering

```azure
az network vnet peering create \
    --name ResearchVNet-To-MarketingVNet \
    --remote-vnet MarketingVNet \
    --resource-group learn-87aef787-e166-4b23-8514-58f8467dd7d6 \
    --vnet-name ResearchVNet \
    --allow-vnet-access
```

```azure
az network vnet peering list \
    --resource-group learn-87aef787-e166-4b23-8514-58f8467dd7d6 \
    --vnet-name MarketingVNet \
    --output table
```

### Discover IP's for items in a resource group:
```azure
az vm list \
    --resource-group $rg \
    --query "[*].{Name:name, PrivateIP:privateIps, PublicIP:publicIps}" \
    --show-details \
    --output table
```

Name        PrivateIP    PublicIP
----------  -----------  -------------
AppServer   10.0.0.4     13.72.84.165
DataServer  10.0.1.4     13.68.240.211

##  Control access to Azure Storage with shared access signatures

### Authorization options for Azure Storage

### Public access

Azure Blobs / Containers

There are two separate settings that affect public access:

The Storage Account. Configure the storage account to allow public access by setting the AllowBlobPublicAccess property. When set to true, Blob data is available for public access only if the container's public access setting is also set.

The Container. You can enable anonymous access only if anonymous access has been allowed for the storage account. A container has two possible settings public access: Public read access for blobs, or public read access for a container and its blobs. Anonymous access is controlled at the container level, not for individual blobs. This means that if you want to secure some of the files, you need to put them in a separate container that does not permit public read access.

### Azure Active Directory

Use the Azure AD option to securely access Azure Storage without storing any credentials in your code. AD authorization takes a two-step approach. First, you authenticate a security principal that returns an OAuth 2.0 token if successful. This token is then passed to Azure Storage to enable authorization to the requested resource.

Use this form of authentication if you're running an app with managed identities or using security principals.

### Configure Azure App Service

#### Secure an App Service

Logging and tracing
If you enable application logging, you will see authentication and authorization traces directly in your log files. If you see an authentication error that you didn’t expect, you can conveniently find all the details by looking in your existing application logs. If you enable failed request tracing, you can see exactly what role the authentication and authorization module may have played in a failed request. In the trace logs, look for references to a module named EasyAuthModule_32/64.

## Configure Azure Container Instances
### Implement Container Groups
#### Common scenarios
Multi-container groups are useful in cases where you want to divide a single functional task into a small number of container images. These images can then be delivered by different teams and have separate resource requirements. Example usage could include:

- A container serving a web application and a container pulling the latest content from source control.
- An application container and a logging container. The logging container collects the logs and metrics output by the main application and writes them to long-term storage.
- An application container and a monitoring container. The monitoring container periodically makes a request to the application to ensure that it's running and responding correctly, and raises an alert if it's not.
- A front-end container and a back-end container. The front end might serve a web application, with the back end running a service to retrieve data.

## Manage Virtual Machines with the Azure CLI
### Creating VM's
- Resource Group
- Name
- Location
- vnet-name
- subnet
- image
- admin username
- admin password
```azure
az vm create \
    --resource-group learn-87aef787-e166-4b23-8514-58f8467dd7d6 \
    --no-wait \
    --name ResearchVM \
    --location westeurope \
    --vnet-name ResearchVNet \
    --subnet Data \
    --image UbuntuLTS \
    --admin-username azureuser \
    --admin-password <password>
```